README

Hi, I'm Om Varma Dendukuri 
ID NUMBER: 2025A4PS0677H
This is the code regarding task 1 of aviation of JANUS.


TASK 1:

Reading the graphing of the real time data.

The 4 files LiveCSVgenerator.py, Raw_Test_Flight_Data.csv, Real_Time.csv, TestData.py consist of this task.

LiveCSVgenerator shifts the data from  Raw_Test_Flight_Data.csv to Real_Time.csv which then is displayed using the TestData.py program.

Please use the Raw_Test_Flight_Data.csv provided here since I have modified it.

By adding the data live to Real_Time.csv it kind of simulates the process of getting data real time.

First run LiveCSVgenerator.py then TestData.py(The order doesn't really matter but if LiveCSVgenerator.py is not running then TestData.py will show a static graph).

I decided to handle the error in the data by assigning the previous value to the error time.

To calculate altitude I used international standard atmosphere (ISA) model(formula in the code) and for the velocity was calculated by change in altitude with respect to time.

To smoothen the graph I have used two approaches 1.Low pass filters 2.Gaussian smoothening.

1. Low pass filters: It uses the formula a*current_value + (1-a)*prev_value where a is called the smoothening factor. Changing the value of a changes how the graph smoothens(a=0, const graph)(a=1, same noise graph)
2.Gaussian smoothening: It is a type of weighted moving average.

These are the ways I have used to try to smoothen the real world noisy data

The file names are important so make sure they are the same!


TASK 2:

Regarding the arduino circuit to detect whether the device is ascending, descending or at apogee

The ardiuno circuit is given in ArduinoCircuit20250677.png
The code is given in ArdiunoCode20250677.txt

I have achieved the smoothening of the real time noisy data by taking the average of the previous AverageNum(A variable with number changeble) numbers

This average of the previous numbers is based on a really intersting concept where cyclicty of the remainders is used. Any number N can be written in the form of
N = 10k + r
where k, r are some unique constants k is the quotient, r is the remainder. As the value of N increases r cycles between 0 to 9 and this is used to index an array containing previos values and changes it to the new value.
The sum of the elements of the array divided by the number of elements (AverageNum elements) is the Average.

The Leds indicate the state of the device
Green LED --> Descending
Yellow LED + Buzzer --> apogee
Red LED --> Ascending


This is how I have dealt with the tasks given

Thank you!




